With firebase added It's time to actually start working on the web and add a way to authenticate ourselves.
I'll do this by adding a new service here.
The off service I'm going to name it offered to ts as to file name and in there the service is named
of service just like this.
In this service I'll add a couple of helper methods and we're going to expand the service throughout
the supplication.
The first method I need is a sign up method because I want to allow the user well to sign himself right
to create a new user sign up method will receive the email the user entered and the password he entered.
So both are of course of type string.
And then once you sign the user up not that is why I added the firebase STK it has a helper method for
this so I'm importing firebase from firebase here and then I will simply call firebase off this method
here.
It's a method call.
Recognized this and then changed that method.
It's called True Yate user with email and password and it's pretty self-explanatory.
It creates a user with email and password passed to this method.
So here in passing email and password and this is all.
Now it's important to understand what happens behind the scenes because if you're using your own back
and or a different back and you won't have the firebase SDK you won't have this method right.
You're probably sending HGP request and we will learn how to do that later.
You're probably sending HTP request to your own restful API.
Now basically firebase of create user with E-Man password does the same behind the scenes.
It will probably encode our data and then send it to some restful API endpoint on some of Google's servers
where it will actually be validated and so on.
And then actually create a user for us on the server.
Now it is all hidden behind one method this whole HDB be send request process and so on the error handling
it probably hasn't place.
So that makes it very convenient to use but it's key to understand.
You could do this on your own.
You could just send the request to your own back and handle any potential errors and you good to go.
So with this we're sending this request I want to return the result of this method call here because
the result will actually be well an error.
For example if the email address is already taken or not a valid email address because firebase will
validate our data for us on the server so I'm sending this request now.
From where do I want to send it.
Though of course from the sign up file here from the sign up page because you're in on Sign-Up I don't
want to log my values.
I want to use the service instead and send this data to the firebase river to create a new user.
Now in order to use the service we need to provided here in the app module of service like this and
then indeed sign up component I will simply inject disservice so that we're able to use to sign up method
we just create it.
So you're all in jeopardy of service as we always check out our services just like this.
Make sure to be at the import pointing to the services folder.
And then on the on sign up method I of course want to reach out to the office service.
So I want to call off service sign up and pass my user data here.
Now I want to pass my e-mail and I want to pass my password.
I know that those two properties exist undeformed value optic because these are the names I chose and
the template of the site up for an email and password.
Now with this we're sending this request to firebase.
Now remember in the sign up method I actually returned the result of this request where I return the
result of this method call I should say.
Now the result actually is a promise which will of course resolve if this was successfully and well
be rejected.
If we have an error.
So we should handle both cases did then block we'll handle the case that we successfully created a new
user in this case.
For now I simply want to output or I will want to log this to the console.
So you're all take any data we may receive and simply lock this data to the console.
Well I guess no way.
No need to structured like this.
I also want to catch a potential error or unlock error or to the console so that we get a feeling for
what firebase actually does for us here.
So this is the finished on Sign-Up method for now this call to the sign up method in our service which
will actually use firebase to try to sign up or a user.
And then then for the success case and catch for any potential errors.
Now with this app still running I can't or with I on a server still running I should say I can save
just recompile the app and now if we have a look at our running application here.
Let's actually go to the Sign-Up page and I want to start with valid data.
So a task that test that comma should be a valid email address.
Also add a valid password and click sign up and we do get some data.
Now it might look very cryptic but I can tell you this is the success case you will be able to tell
that this was the success case if it looks like sign up one more time.
So we're sending the same e-mail address again which shouldn't work because we already have a user with
this e-mail address.
And indeed now we get an error.
And as you can see we can get an error message the e-mail address is already in use by another account.
So this was generated by firebase for us and we could output this message.
And actually we will output this later.
For now this is the base functionality working.
And we can see that it worked in the firebase console.
If we go to authentication again here you see this new user was created a second ago.
So now I'm going to delete the account for now so that we can reuse this e-mail address.
Of course you could also keep it if you don't plan on recreating it.
But with that we get the basic sign up functionality working.
However we can still improve this by for example showing some loading screen when we actually are sending
the request and waiting for a response.
So let's find you in this sign up page in the next lecture.